.TH gpasm 1 "(c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 James Bowman, Craig Franklin"
.SH NAME
gpasm - GNU PIC assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpasm [options] file
.SH WARNING
The information in this man page is an extract from the full documentation of
gputils and is limited to the meaning of the options.  For complete and 
current documentation, refer to "gputils.ps" located in the gputils docs 
directory.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpasm
is an assembler for Microchip (TM) PIC (TM) micro-controllers.
It's intended to be compatible with the manufacturer's MPASM
assembler.
.B gpasm
is part of gputils.  Check the gputils(1) manpage for details on other GNU 
PIC utilities.
.SH OPTIONS
Below is a summary of the
.B gpasm 
options.
.B gpasm
options always supersede any settings in the source code.
.TP
.B -a FMT, --hex-format FMT       
GPASM supports inhx8m, inhx8s, inhx16, and inhx32 hex file formats.  This 
option controls which hex file format is used.  The default is inhx32.
.TP
.B -c, --object 
Output a relocatable object.
.TP
.B -d, --debug   
Output debug messages.
.TP
.B -D SYM=VAL, --define SYM=VAL   
Define SYM with value VAL. This is equivalent to placing "#define SYM VAL" in 
the source.
.TP
.B -e [ON|OFF], --expand [ON|OFF] 
Macro expansion in the listing file is controlled using the EXPAND and NOEXPAND
directives.  This option can force either directive to be ignored.  When "ON"
is selected the macros are always expanded regardless of the presence of 
NOEXPAND.  Likewise, "OFF" will force macros not to be expanded. 
.TP
.B -g, --debug-info   
Use debug directives for COFF.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show the usage message.
.TP
.B -i, --ignore-case 
All user defined symbols and macros are case sensitive.  This option makes them
case insensitive.
.TP
.B -I DIR, --include DIR
The top level assembly file is passed to gpasm as an argument.  This file can
contain INCLUDE directives.  These directives open the specified file and 
then its contents are assembled.  GPASM searches for these files in the local 
directory.  If the file is not located, the default header path is checked.  
Finally, all paths specified using this argument are searched. 
.TP
.B -L, --force-list 
Ignore NOLIST directives.  This forces gpasm to print every line assembled in 
the list file output.
.TP
.B -l, --list-chips
List the supported processors.
.TP
.B -m, --dump
Upon completion of the final pass of assembly, display the contents of 
instruction memory.
.TP
.B -M, --deps
Output a dependency file.
.TP
.B -n, --dos
By default, gpasm generates hex files using ISO format.  However, some device 
programmers required a DOS formatted file.  This option will cause gpasm to 
generate a DOS formatted hex file.
.TP
.B -o FILE, --output FILE
Alternate name of the output file.
.TP
.B -p PROC, --processor PROC
Select the processor.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Suppress anything sent to standard output.
.TP
.B -r RADIX, --radix RADIX
The supported radices are BIN, DEC, OCT, and HEX.  The default is HEX.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show the version.
.TP
.B -w [0|1|2], --warning [0|1|2]
This option sets the message level. "0" is the default.  It will allow all 
messages, warnings, and errors to be reported.  "1" will suppress the messages.
"2" will suppress the messages and warnings.
.TP
.B -y, --extended
Enable 18xx extended mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
gputils(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Craig Franklin <craigfranklin@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 James Bowman, Craig Franklin

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
