.TH gpdasm 1 "(c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 Craig Franklin"
.SH NAME
gpdasm - GNU PIC disassembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpdasm [options] file
.SH WARNING
The information in this man page is an extract from the full documentation of
gputils and is limited to the meaning of the options.  For complete and 
current documentation, refer to "gputils.ps" located in the gputils docs 
directory.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpdasm
is an disassembler for Microchip (TM) PIC (TM) micro-controllers.
.B gpdasm
is part of gputils.  Check the gputils(1) manpage for details on other GNU 
PIC utilities.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c, --mnemonics
Decode special mnemonics.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show the usage message.
.TP
.B -i, --hex-info
Report extra information about input hex file.  This information includes file
size and hex format.
.TP
.B -l, --list-chips
List the supported processors.
.TP
.B -m, --dump
Display the contents of instruction memory.
.TP
.B -p PROC, --processor PROC
Select the processor.
.TP
.B -s, --short
Output the short format.  This format can be reassembled by gpasm.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show the version.
.TP
.B -y, --extended
Enable 18xx extended mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
gputils(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Craig Franklin <craigfranklin@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 Craig Franklin

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
