.TH ODYSSEY 1 "$Date: 2006-12-31 15:45:41 $"
.SH NAME
odyssey \- PIC serial microcontroller programming utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "odyssey [" options "] init"
.br
.BI "odyssey [" options "] " "chiptype command" " [" "command arguments" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B odyssey
is a serial device programming utility designed for use under Linux and
other alternative operating systems. At the moment, it only supports
programming PIC microcontrollers but it is designed to support many different
types of devices and many different types of programming hardware.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V
Print the Odyssey version
.TP
.B -q
Quiet mode. Don't display the progress counters during an operation.
.TP
.B -f filename
Specify an alternate configuration file in ~/.odyssey/ to use. The default
value for this option is "config".
.TP
.B -v section.variable=value
Set the value of a configuration variable, overriding the previous value. For
example, to temporarily change the I/O driver to direct hardware access, the
option would be
.B -v io.driver=directpp
.TP
.B -l
Lists the supported values for the
.I chiptype
parameter. Device names prefixed with a * have not yet been tested. You should
not include the * character when specifying an untested device.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Initializes the PIC programmer hardware and turns off all the power and
data lines. You should do this before inserting a PIC into the programming
socket. A
.I chiptype
does not need to be specified for this command.
.TP
.BI write " filename"
Programs the data in
.I filename
to a PIC. Odyssey autodetects the file type and currently supports Intel
8, 16, and 32-bit hex files.
.TP
.BI read " filename"
Reads the memory contents of a PIC and writes it to
.I filename.
The default output file format is Intel 32-bit hex.
.TP
.BI verify " filename"
Compares the contents of a PIC's memory against
.I filename
and reports the first location that doesn't match.
.TP
.B check
Checks that the PIC is connected and of the correct type, and reports
the device ID.  (This is not yet implemented for all PIC families; on
other families it will succeed, but print a warning.)
.TP
.B erase
Erases an electrically erasable PIC.
.TP
.B blankcheck
Checks if a PIC is blank. This is especially useful when using EPROM based PICs.
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILES"
On startup,
.B odyssey
will load its hardware configuration from two places. The system-wide
configuration file
.B /usr/local/etc/odyssey.conf
will be read first. After that, the user-specific configuration file,
.B $HOME/.odyssey/config,
is read. The variables in the user configuration override any settings in
the system-wide configuration.
.PP
For your convienence, if the
.B $CONFIG
environment variable is set, the user configuration will be read from
.B $CONFIG/odyssey/config.
This is a futile attempt to reduce the number of dotfiles in
.B $HOME.
.SS "CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT"
The configuration file is a plain ASCII text file that is divided into
sections, each which contain variable/value pairs. Comments can be included
by starting a line with a pound sign (#).
.PP
A section is started with a line containing only the section name enclosed in
square brackets. After a section is started, variables can be assigned values.
Section and variable names must only contain characters from the set
[0-9A-Za-z _-]. Values can contain any characters. Variable assignment is
accomplished by text lines of the form
.IB variable = value.
.PP
Here is a sample section definition
.RS
.BI [ section ]
.RE
.RS
.IB variable1 = value1
.RE
.RS
.IB variable2 = value2
.RE
.RS
.IB foo = true
.RE
.SS "VALUE SYNTAX"
Values given to variables must match the type of the variable being assigned.
The following types are defined
.TP
.B integer
An integer can be in standard decimal form ("123") or in hexadecimal form
("0x7B"). Integers in standard decimal form are signed and can be positive or
negative.
.TP
.B boolean
A boolean indicates either true or false. To indicate a true boolean value,
the value should be one of "1", "true", "yes", or "on". To indicate a false
boolean value, the value should be one of "0", "false", "no", or "off".
.TP
.B string
The value of a string variable will be used verbatim. There are no constraints
on string variables.
.SH LICENSE
.B odyssey
is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2.
.SH "AUTHORS"
  Mark Aikens <marka@desert.cx>
  Pierre Gaufillet <pierre.gaufillet@magic.fr>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pic.conf (5)
